h2. Capistrano

Capistrano is a gem originally created by Jamis Buck but is now maintained by Lee Hambley and additional volunteers. It is designed for easy application deployment, not limited to Rails.

In this guide, we'll be using the Ticketee application from <a href='http://manning.com/katz'>Rails 3 in Action</a> as an example, which can be found at http://github.com/rails3book/ticketee.

* Learn the purpose of Capistrano
* Deploy an application using Capistrano
* Rollback a deploy

endprologue.

The majority of this guide is also covered in the official Capistrano guide, which may provide some additional insight. https://github.com/capistrano/capistrano/wiki/2.x-From-The-Beginning

Capistrano provides an easy way to configure and deploy versions of an application to one or many servers. Capistrano also allows us to roll back to a previous version of the application if we wish.

h3. Installation and setup

The +capistrano+ gem must be installed on all computers which will be used to deploy the application, but _not_ the servers where the applications are deployed to. To install this gem we will run this command:

<pre>
  gem install capistrano
</pre>

When the gem is installed we can set it up inside a Rails application by running this command from the root of the application:

<pre>
  capify
</pre>

This will create two files: +Capfile+ and +config/deploy.rb+. The +Capfile+ is a file containing set up for Capistrano in the application and contains this code:

<pre>
  load 'deploy' if respond_to?(:namespace) # cap2 differentiator
  Dir['vendor/plugins/*/recipes/*.rb'].each { |plugin| load(plugin) }

  load 'config/deploy' # remove this line to skip loading any of the default tasks
</pre>

The second line here will load any files of any plugins that are in that plugin's recipes directory. We'll look at recipes later on in this guide, in the "Recipes" section.

The +config/deploy.rb+ file contains the configuration for deploying our application and begins with these two lines:

<ruby>
  set :application, "set your application name here"
  set :repository,  "set your repository location here"
</ruby>

When we call +set+ in Capistrano it sets a variable we (or Capistrano itself) can reference later. The +application+ variable here should be the name of our application and the +repository+ variable should be the path to our application. Let's change these lines to this:

<ruby>
  set :application, "ticketee"
  set :repository,  "git://github.com/rails3book/ticketee.git"
</ruby>

Underneath this repository line we'll configure Capistrano to pull from the +production+ branch instead of the default (the +master+ branch for Git):

<ruby>
  set :branch, "production"
</ruby>

For the reasons on this see the "Branching" section of the "Getting Started" guide.

On the next line there's the +scm+ setting:

<ruby>
  set :scm, :subversion
</ruby>

We're going to be using Git and not Subversion in this case, so we'll change this line to this:

<ruby>
  set :scm, :git
</ruby>

On the next few lines there are a couple of roles defined. These roles point to:

* +web+: The server or servers which are responsible for serving requests for our application
* +app+: The server or servers where the application's code is hosted.
* +db+: The server or servers where the database for the application is hosted.

Right now we won't worry about multiple server setups, focussing only on having everything on the one box. The "your *-server here" lines will be replaced with the IP or FQDN (Fully-Qualified Domain Name), something that looks like this:

<ruby>
  role :web, "192.168.137.130"
  role :app, "192.168.137.130"
  role :db,  "192.168.137.130", :primary => true
</ruby>

Two more settings that we'll need to set up is the user and the path where we're going to deploy our application to. The user will be the +deploy+ user and the path will be +/home/deploy/apps+, with the application name being used as the name of a sub-folder of that application. Underneath the +set :scm+ line we will put this:

<ruby>
  set :user, "deploy"
  set :deploy_to, "/home/deploy/apps/#{application}"
</ruby>

We'll also tell Capistrano not to use the +sudo+ command, given that everything should now be installable by this user:

<ruby>
  set :use_sudo, false
</ruby>

Lastly, at the bottom of the file there are a couple of lines for defining +deploy:start+, +deploy:stop+ and +deploy:restart+ tasks for Passenger which are commented out. Let's remove the comment hash from the beginning of these lines, transforming them to this:

<ruby>
  namespace :deploy do
    task :start do ; end
    task :stop do ; end
    task :restart, :roles => :app, :except => { :no_release => true } do
      run "#{try_sudo} touch #{File.join(current_path,'tmp','restart.txt')}"
    end
  end
</ruby>

This will override Capistrano's default +deploy:start+ and +deploy:stop+ tasks to do nothing, and the +deploy:restart+ task to touch a file at +current_path+ (+/home/deploy/apps/ticketee/current+) in the +tmp+ folder called +restart.txt+. When this file has been touched, Passenger will restart the application abandoning the old code and loading the newly deployed code upon the next request.

With the Capistrano configuration done, we can run the +cap+ command, passing in the name of a task to set up our application, such as +deploy:setup+. This task is one of a group of tasks that are provided by default with Capistrano. To see a list of these tasks we can use the +cap -T+ command.

We'll now use the +deploy:setup+ task which will set up the folder where our application is deployed, +/home/deploy/apps/ticketee+, with some basic folders:

<pre>
  cap deploy:setup
</pre>

This command is in the same vein as the +rails new+ command we've used previously, as it sets up an identical, standard scaffold for every Capistrano. When this command runs, we'll see a large chunk of output which we'll now break down, one line at a time:

<pre>
  * executing `deploy:setup'
</pre>

Capistrano tells us the name of the currently executing task, +deploy:setup+. The next line tells us what command it is about to execute.

<pre>
    * executing "mkdir -p /home/deploy/apps/ticketee
                          /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases 
                          /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared 
                          /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/system
                          /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/log
                          /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/pids
</pre>

The basic directories required for Capistrano. The first directory acts as a base for our application, containing several different sub directories, the first of which being +releases+. 

Whenever we deploy using Capistrano, a new release is created in the +releases+ directory, timestamped to the current time using the same time format as migrations within Rails (e.g. 20110205225746, or YYYYMMDDHHmmSS). The latest release of course would be the final one in this directory.

The +shared+ directory is the directory where files can be shared across releases, such as uploads that would usually go in the +public/system+ directory, which would now be placed in +shared/system+. 

(Perhaps explain "symbolically linked")

The +shared/log+ directory is symbolically linked to the current release's +log+ directory when we run a deploy. This is so that all logs will be kept in the +shared/log+ directory, rather than in each release.

The +shared/pids+ directory is symbolically linked to the current release's +tmp/pids+ up on deploy. This folder is used for ...

The next line after this makes these folders group writable with the +chmod+ command:

<pre>
  chmod g+w /home/deploy/apps/ticketee
            /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases
            /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared
            /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/system 
            /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/log
            /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/pids"
</pre>

At the bottom of this command's output we can see what servers it will be executed on, with just the one server for now. It also tells us that the command is being executed and, faster than we can blink, that the command has finished.

<pre>
  servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
  [192.168.137.130] executing command
  command finished
</pre>

Once the +deploy:setup+ Capistrano task has finished then +cap deploy:setup+ also finishes, returning us to the console. Now we can deploy our application!

h3. Deploy!

Capistrano has now been configured to deploy the Ticketee application and we've set up our server using the +cap deploy:setup+ command, leaving it up to us now to deploy our code. Capistrano's +deploy+ task will let us do this, and we can run this task with this command:

<pre>
  cap deploy
</pre>

This command outputs an even larger output to +cap deploy:setup+, but again we'll go through it line by line. It's not really all that intimidating when its broken down into little chunks, really!

h4. In the beginning (of a deploy)

The first output we'll see from a deploy is:

<pre>
 * executing `deploy'
 * executing `deploy:update'
 ** transaction: start
 * executing `deploy:update_code'
</pre>

These first three lines tell us the tasks which are being executed. Of course the +deploy+ task is going to be executed because we asked Capistrano to do that. This task depends on the +deploy:update+ task, and so it will run that. 

The +deploy:update+ task begins a transaction (the third line here), which is exceptionally helpful. If anything goes wrong in our deploy, Capistrano will rollback everything to the beginning of this transaction, deleting any code it's deployed. This transaction's a failsafe for our deploy.

Finally from this part of the output is the +deploy:update_code+ task, which is responsible for updating the application's code in our deployment environment. This task is responsible for this code:

<pre>
  executing locally: "git ls-remote git://github.com/rails3book/ticketee production"
  * executing "git clone -q git://github.com/rails3book/ticketee /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206070736 && cd /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206070736 && git checkout -q -b deploy c4517c264d2d92b1cb179f9d4fe47a985c69745a && (echo c4517c264d2d92b1cb179f9d4fe47a985c69745a > /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206070736/REVISION)"
      servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
      [192.168.137.130] executing command
      command finished
</pre>

 This task first runs +git ls-remote+, a lesser known Git command, locally (not on the server) which will get the current SHA for the +production+ branch, which at the moment is +c4517c264d2d92b1cb179f9d4fe47a985c69745a+. 

The +deploy:update_code+ then clones the repository using +git clone+ into a new release directory, with the timestamp (20110206070736). Then it checks out the revision to a new branch called +deploy+.

The next thing Capistrano does is it puts the current revision in a file called +REVISION+. If we like, we could alter the layout of our application read the value from this file and put it in our application's layout as a HTML comment so that when we do a deploy to the server, we can check this hash to see if it is the latest code.

That's the end of +deploy:update_code+. The next couple of lines are from the beginning of the +deploy:finalize_update+:


<pre>
 * executing `deploy:finalize_update'
 * executing "chmod -R g+w /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659"
   servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
   [192.168.137.130] executing command
   command finished
</pre>

With this +chmod+ command, Capistrano ensures that our new release's directory is group writable (+g\+w+), allowing the user / group to make any modifications to this directory they like.

Finally, the +deploy:finalize_update+ then removes the +log+, +public/system+ and +tmp/pids+ directories and symbolically links the +shared/log+, +shared/system+ and +shared/pids+ directories (in our application's deployed path) to these paths respectively. It does that in this little command:

<pre>
   * executing "rm -rf /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/log /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/public/system /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/tmp/pids &&\\\n      mkdir -p /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/public &&\\\n      mkdir -p /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/tmp &&\\\n      ln -s /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/log /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/log &&\\\n      ln -s /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/system /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/public/system &&\\\n      ln -s /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/pids /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/tmp/pids"
     servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
     [192.168.137.130] executing command
     command finished
</pre>

Next, Capistrano will use the +find+ command to +touch+ every file in the +public/images+, +public/stylesheets+ and +public/javascripts+ to update their last modified time. This is so that when a user visits our site they get the latest image, stylesheet or javascript file rather than a cached file. It does this with this part of the output:

<pre>
 * executing "find /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/public/images /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/public/stylesheets /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659/public/javascripts -exec touch -t 201102060337.13 {} ';'; true"
   servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
   [192.168.137.130] executing command
   command finished
</pre>

The final step for the +deploy:update_code+ task is to run the +deploy:symlink+ task which symbolically links the new release directory to the +current+ folder within our deploy path (in this example, +/home/deploy/apps/ticketee/current+).

<pre>
 * executing `deploy:symlink'
 * executing "rm -f /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/current && ln -s /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110206033659 /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/current"
   servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
   [192.168.137.130] executing command
   command finished
</pre>

The final action of the +deploy:update+ task is to commit the transaction that began at the start, meaning our deploy was successful:

<pre>
  ** transaction: commit
</pre>

The absolutely final thing the +deploy+ task does is call +deploy:restart+ which will touch the +tmp/restart+ file in our new application directory (+/home/deploy/apps/ticketee/current+):

<pre>
 * executing `deploy:restart'
 * executing "touch /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/current/tmp/restart.txt"
   servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
   [192.168.137.130] executing command
   command finished
</pre>

And that's it! Our application is deployed for the first time, however it's not quite ready yet for prime-time usage. For starters, the application's gems are most certainly not installed. On our development box we would do this by running the +bundle install+ task, which is actually provided to us by file that comes with Bundler.

h4. Bundler

We can trigger the +bundle install+ task to happen when we do a deploy by requiring the +bundler/capistrano+ file in the +config/deploy+ of our application, right at the very top:

<ruby>
  require 'bundler/capistrano'
</ruby>

We'll also need to require RVM's +capistrano+ configuration so that when we do a deploy it can locate the +bundle+ command (provided by RVM) which it will need to run +bundle install+. At the top of +config/deploy.rb+ we'll put this line also:

<ruby>
  require 'rvm/capistrano'
</ruby>

When we run +cap deploy+ again, we'll see this additional output, just after the stylesheets, javascripts and images touching:

<pre>
  * executing `bundle:install'
  * executing "ls -x /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases"
    servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
    [192.168.137.130] executing command
    command finished
  * executing "bundle install --gemfile /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/releases/20110207202618/Gemfile --path /home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/bundle --deployment --quiet --without development test"
    servers: ["192.168.137.130"]
    [192.168.137.130] executing command
    command finished
</pre>

Bundler's added a +bundle:install+ task to our Capistrano configuration which runs after +deploy:finalize_update+. This task runs +ls -x+ command at the beginning to get the last release's directory (+20110207202618+, in this case), which it then uses to specify the location of the +Gemfile+ using the +--gemfile+ flag passed to +bundle install+.

Rather than installing the gems to a system location which may not be writable by this user (our +/usr/local/rvm+ directories certainly aren't), Bundler elects instead to install this to the +/home/deploy/apps/ticketee/shared/bundler+ directory instead, specified by the +--path+ flag. 

The +--deployment+ flag specifies that the repository must contain a +Gemfile.lock+ file (meaning the gem versions are locked) and that the +Gemfile.lock+ file is up-to-date according to the +Gemfile+. This is to ensure that we're running an identical gemset on our server and local machines.

Lastly, the +--without+ flag tells Bundler what groups to ignore. The +development+ and +test+ groups are ignored in this case, meaning gems specified in these two groups will not be installed.

With our application's gems installed we're getting even closer to having an application running. When we deploy changes to our application these changes may include new migrations which will need to be run on the server after we do a deploy. We can deploy our code _and_ migrate by running this lovely command:

<text>
  cap deploy:migrations
</text>

When the command runs we'll see that the migrations for our application have run. Ideally, we should use this command to always do a deploy to ensure that all the migrations are up to date, rather than +cap deploy+ which wouldn't.

With our application's code on the server and the migrations run, we still don't have a way of receiving requests. To set that up, we'll be using the Passenger gem which can be read about in the Passenger guide.

h3. Custom tasks

h3. Recipes

[Explain capistrano recipes and how to install one as a plugin and what it does]

h3. Symbolically linking other directories
