h2. Installing Passenger on Ubuntu

This guide assumes that a server is set up using the instructions from the "Getting Started with Ubuntu" guide or similar.

Passenger is a gem which provides a module for either the Apache or nginx web-servers which allows for Rack-based applications (including Rails applications) to be hosted using these services.

Passenger allows us to run multiple instances of the application (as opposed to a +rails server+ launch, which is simply one), allowing us to serve a large number of requests at any particular point in time. In addition to this, Passenger is highly configurable but also incredibly easy to set up.

When we run +rails server+ it launches a Ruby server called WEBrick which is then responsible for serving every request for the application, including assets. This server is fine for testing but shouldn't be used under any sort of load.

A web server such as Apache or nginx is _designed_ to be used under load, to share static assets, such as stylesheets, javascript files or images, and so this makes these servers much faster than Ruby's WEBrick by an extraordinary amount.

The Passenger gem provides a module for either Apache or Nginx which acts as a bridge between these servers and our Rails application, handling things such as starting up new instances of the application when the load spikes and culling them when the load isn't so high. As before: this is really configurable and we'll see some examples here.

* Install the Passenger gem
* Apache install
* Nginx install

endprologue.

h3. Installing Passenger

To install the Passenger gem we will use the +gem install+ command as our user on the server:

<pre>
  gem install passenger
</pre>

With the gem installed, we can now install the module for either Apache _or_ nginx on our system, but before that we'll need to install one of these two servers.

h3. Apache

[short spiel about Apache]

h4. Installation

h4. Configuration

h3. nginx

[short spiel about Nginx]

h4. Installation

h4. Configuration

