--- 
wordpress_id: 422
layout: post
title: How Dare I!
wordpress_url: http://frozenplague.net/?p=422
---
I left not-so-sunny South Australia without writing anything on my blog saying when I was going! Sorry to all my loyal readers who check at <strong>least</strong> 50 times daily to see if I have updated. It has been a long time my good friends but I am finally in sunny Queensland and today was my first day back at <a href="http://mocra.com">Mocra</a> which was fantastic!

If any of you wish to come up and visit me, feel free. I do recommend however you fly up because the drive is not only costly, but very freakin' long (2000km) and very freakin' boring.

&lt;b&gt;Highlights of the trip&lt;/b&gt;

1. A sign that spanned about 30m on poles about double the thickness of my legs bent backwards with no marks on it whatsoever. It looked. as though the wind had done it.

2. Parkes Radio Telescope. Biggest. Dish. Ever.

3. The ever decreasing distance to Brisbane.

4. Visiting half the states and territories of Australia.

5. Doing presentation of rboard at Brisbane Ruby Users Group!

&lt;b&gt;Lowlights&lt;/b&gt;

1. "Continue straight for 164km" or "At the roundabout take the second exit", in 111km. There's a long time between towns out there.

2. Losing my mind somewhere between Goondiwindi and Brisbane. Lost concentration and the mind went on a tangent, something about floating continents (think warships, but continents) and people with telekenesis. My imagination is weird and wonderful.
