--- 
wordpress_id: 34
layout: post
title: YOU SMELL!
wordpress_url: http://frozenplague.net/?p=34
---
I was on the train last night coming from Adelaide to my station and around Nurlutta (about 6 stops away from station) this Aboriginal guy gets on. Instantly this smell infiltrates my nostrils and I fight back the urge to show the guy what I ate for lunch. The worst part is he sat across from me. He mumbled a few things and I completely ignored him.

BUT THIS SMELL WAS UNHOLY. Score +1 for proof there isn't a God. Think of everything bad you've ever smelt and concentrate it on one person. I am not over-exaggerating. This is what he smelt like, everything unholy and more.

So I moved one seat up so I could be closer to the door and get the fresh air faster than anyone else in the train. I tried to slow my breathing, holding my breath and so on, but it kept coming back. When the door would open I would subtly lean towards the door and take long deep breaths of the lovely fresh air.

The worst part is that when I got off the train, I could still smell it faintly on my jumper.

It should be a criminal offense, classified under the bio-weapon law umbrella, it was DEVASTATING. I can not stress that enough.

How can people even get to that stage? How can people even let other people get to that stage? Wouldn't they notice *something*?

----

I know this is getting too much of a habit, putting two blogs in one post, but what are you going to do about it?

I ordered some computer parts for my computer and a friend's computer, from [url=http://msy.com.au]a certain computer store[/url]. WARNING WEBSITE MAY DESTROY ALL HOPE. It was a clear list of what I wanted, and I assumed they would just email me back and tell me when they were ready to be picked up. No such event occurred, so I phoned them up yesterday and was told that they don't hold parts for people for more than 2 days. They could've at least told me that in an email, but no response. This is poor customer service, and I'm considering taking my money (a lot of it) somewhere else.

Here's what I ordered:

Friend's Computer
Motherboard: Asus M2N8
CPU: AN2 Sempron 3000+
RAM: 1gb-667 Generic
Monitor: 17" Viewsonic VA703B-8ms
Power Supply: SHAW 550W
Case: Coolermaster Ammo RC533
Keyboard: Slim Black-Sliver Keyboard
Mouse: USB Optical

Parts for mine:
CPU: Intel Core 2 Duo E6600
Graphics Card: 640MB 8800GTS Leadtek 

That's about $1,000 right there. So now I have to re-order all that crap in, I might stop by their store today and verbally order it.
