--- 
wordpress_id: 131
layout: post
title: IT BURNS!
wordpress_url: http://frozenplague.net/2008/02/16/it-burns/
---
No, I'm not mimicing what the heavy says in Team Fortress 2 when a Pyro has freshly set him alight, I'm doing something that's not TF2! Coding PHP!

After living in a fantasy world of Ruby on Rails for around 8 months, and then jumping straight back into PHP at the niggling, horribly maintained <a href="http://pulse.offbeat-zero.net">Whatpulse Signature Images site</a> and it was like jumping into a vat of Sulphuric Acid, not that I know what that's like.

Lets lead off with a few bad things:

<strong>1. Mother-fucking semi-colons </strong>

What. The. Fuck. Why do I have to end my lines with semi-colons? There's been about a hundred times (it feels it) TODAY that I've been caught out because I've missed a semi-colon somewhere.

<strong>2. Brackets</strong>

Why does my if statement need to have (  and ) around the argument? Isn't the text after the if ALWAYS the argument? Why the hell does it need curly brackets too?

<strong>3. Coding in Notepad++</strong>

Yay for no syntax highlighting and only <strong>bolding</strong> the ending bracket or parenthesis. It's REALLY hard to tell the difference between <strong>}</strong> and } in Monaco. Same with Courier New.

Yay for also 8-months-ago Ryan not knowing how <strong>truly bloody awesome </strong>line indentation is and how much it makes code easier to read. Thanks for Adam for making his code more readable than mine. The guy's a PHP God. He probably solves advanced calculus equations <strong>simultaneously, for fun.</strong>

Enough ranting. Got to go try out this crap known as "Eclipse PDT" to see if it's better than Notepad++.
