--- 
wordpress_id: 635
layout: post
title: humanize
wordpress_url: http://frozenplague.net/?p=635
---
I was inspired earlier in the year by Brenton Fletcher's humanize that I decided to make my own. Today, <a href='http://github.com/radar/humanize'>I "finished" it</a> with the help of Mitchell Riley and other Actionhackers. Humanize will convert numbers up to a very large number of digits long into their string versions. This means given the number:

444,333,222,111,999,777,666,555,444,333,222,111,999,777,666,555,444,333,221,111,112,176,514,321,007,310,
444,333,222,111,999,777,666,555,444,333,222,111,999,777,666,555,444,333,221,111,112,176,514,321,007,310

<small>Yes it's the same sequence repeated twice, I got lazy in my testing.
imagine it conjoined into one very large number. 

Coincidentally, this is my IQ.</small>

I get:

four hundred and forty four quinquagintillion, three hundred and thirty three novenquadragintillion, two hundred and twenty two octoquadragintillion, one hundred and eleven septenquadragintillion, nine hundred and ninety nine sesquadragintillion, seven hundred and seventy seven quinquadragintillion, six hundred and sixty six quattuorquadragintillion, five hundred and fifty five trequadragintillion, four hundred and forty four duoquadragintillion, three hundred and thirty three unquadragintillion, two hundred and twenty two quadragintillion, one hundred and eleven novemtrigintillion, nine hundred and ninety nine octotrigintillion, seven hundred and seventy seven septentrigintillion, six hundred and sixty six sextrigintillion, five hundred and fifty five quintrigintillion, four hundred and forty four quattuortrigintillion, three hundred and thirty three trestrigintillion, two hundred and twenty one duotrigintillion, one hundred and eleven untrigintillion, one hundred and twelve trigintillion, one hundred and seventy six novemvigintillion, five hundred and fourteen octovigintillion, three hundred and twenty one septenvigintillion, seven sexvigintillion, three hundred and ten quinvigintillion, four hundred and forty four quattuortillion, three hundred and thirty three trevigintillion, two hundred and twenty two duovigintillion, one hundred and eleven unvigintillion, nine hundred and ninety nine vigintillion, seven hundred and seventy seven novemdecillion, six hundred and sixty six octodecillion, five hundred and fifty five septendecillion, four hundred and forty four sexdecillion, three hundred and thirty three quindecillion, two hundred and twenty two quattuordecillion, one hundred and eleven tredecillion, nine hundred and ninety nine duodecillion, seven hundred and seventy seven undecillion, six hundred and sixty six decillion, five hundred and fifty five nonillion, four hundred and forty four octillion, three hundred and thirty three septillion, two hundred and twenty one sextillion, one hundred and eleven quintrillion, one hundred and twelve quadrillion, one hundred and seventy six trillion, five hundred and fourteen billion, three hundred and twenty one million, seven thousand three hundred and ten.

Props to <a href='http://home.hetnet.nl/~vanadovv/BignumbyN.html'>this site which gives names to unimaginably large numbers</a>.

I have yet to find a use for this, but I'm sure somebody out there can.

NOW WITH FASTER PEFORMANCE! Thanks to Jack Chen.
