--- 
wordpress_id: 623
layout: post
title: Allianz
wordpress_url: http://frozenplague.net/?p=623
---
When I moved to Queensland I quickly realised that there's no <a href='http://communitycps.com.au'>CommunityCPS</a> branches up here in the sunshine state so it was suggested that I change to <a href='http://www.commbank.com.au'>The Commonwealth Bank</a> which I did and was painless. I changed every single point of debiting from the account I could find except for iPower (my hosting company, my mistake) and Allianz.

Fucking Allianz.

So I call them up about a month or so ago and say "Hey guys, about my insurance with you... I want to change the bank account it's debited out of it." The guy on the other end of the phone sounds like a McLackey, but my faith in large-corporation call-centers is about as existent as God, so I'm unphased by this. What I was phased by however he said: 

<em><strong>We do not have an account with that name, or that license plate in our systems.</strong></em>. 

So I give him every single shred of information I can think of that would link to me, my old addresses, phone numbers, everything. According to him I didn't exist. So who were the $109.31 monthly debits going to?

Fucking Allianz.
That's who.
Said so on the bank statement.

So I get a little pissy with the guy and say "Righto, I'll just close the account and you can have your people call my people and we'll change the details then?" The guy's shocked, says "Alri.." and I hang up.

<h3>Today</h3>

Today  I get a call from my old bank and they say there's a <strong>negative</strong> amount on my <strong>debit</strong> account which should never happen. I'm told that if I deposit the $109.31 into the account then they can close that for me, which is what I should've done a while ago. They'll send me out paperwork too (yet another company who fails to realise the year is 2009), but what can you do? I guess I could plant a tree or something.

Then I get a call back from them. They ask if I want to cancel my car insurance along with my account. I go "lolwut" or something to that effect, and the lady explains that I have insurance being debited out of my old account and that they "honor" Allianz which is why I had a negative amount. We then go through the process of changing my payment details to my Commonwealth account and my address to my new place, then all is well.

Just annoyed that Allianz has <strong>no record</strong> of CommunityCPS's account with me, and also at myself for not remembering I had insurance with my bank, not with Allianz itself.

