--- 
wordpress_id: RB-297
layout: post
title: Denial
---

When I was trying to get my first programming job, it was incredibly difficult. I applied for at least 50 different places as both an (intermediate) PHP and a (beginning) Ruby / Rails programmer. Every time I got a rejection letter, it broke my heart and towards the end of my attempts I was at quite a low point morale wise. When I went to interviews I would not seem interested because I thought that if 50 other companies rejected me, then why wouldn't these people? **None of the jobs I applied for in the conventional way I got.**

Then one day I received an email from Adam Davies from TravelLink Technology asking about the status of the Adelaide Ruby Users Group a friend and I had started up a couple of months before hand. We never actually had an official meeting, so I told Adam to give it a go. I don't think it was the first one that I attended, but I do remember the month and the year: April 2007. It was at this meeting that I introduced myself as a PHP developer and I instantly was told by 3 people "you should stop doing that and come work for us." These 3 people were SeaLink, Freerange Future and NetFox. Since then, I've worked for both SeaLink and NetFox and learned a lot at both places.

So let me re-iterate: applying for jobs in the conventional way didn't work. Attending local usergroup meetups *did*.

Since then, I've worked for enough clients that I've got enough Rails experience under my belt that I consider myself at the top end of the Rails scale. I know a lot, but I still don't know everything. 

Back in October, [I left GetUp](http://ryanbigg.com/2010/10/gone-from-getup) to go work for a brief stint as a techncial writer and when that didn't go as planned, opened up a [http://pledgie.com/campaigns/14034](donation pledgie) that raised close enough to $2,500, and I used that money to fund my month of being in Brisbane in December doing Rails documentation work, amassing enough commits to now be rank 11 on [Rails contributors](http://contributors.rubyonrails.org). During this time, I improved many of the guides and brought them up to scratch with Rails 3.*

Then when December and the New Years was all over and done with, I began looking for work without making it too public as I didn't want to be overwhelmed with the offers I received. I ended up with five equally superb companies who wanted me, and that I would love to work with. Four of the companies were overseas, each, quite interestingly, in separate countries, unlike the common conception that All Rails Development Happens In San Francisco (ARDHISF, pronouced 'ard-iss-feh).

I've talked with each of these companies over Skype, MSN or email. I've spent quite a lot of time considering all my options, in fact almost a month for some. I've even been tested.

However, I am only one man and so I can only work for one company and I've made my decision. At the end of the day there's going to be four companies who get told, after spending their time and possibly even money to lure me, no. And that's going to be difficult, but it's business and if life didn't have difficult parts we wouldn't be able to describe the non-difficult ones. It is a challenge I will meet with professionalism and, unlike the companies who rejected me with their form letters, in a personal manner for each company. They have spent their time, so why should I not spend a little bit more of mine? It is only common sense.

So for now, where I'm going remains a mystery to all except Those Who Need To Know, but it's safe to say that I feel I have made the correct decision. You'll get to know on a need to know basis.


* Eventually I'll write an engines guide if somebody doesn't beat me to it.